# cart263
re:Memory Artist Statement

re:Memory is the prototype for a psychological visioning tool that I intend to eventually develop. This interactive work/game is an oniric image creation tool, which ‘reveals’ the user’s inner visual subconscious. The user proceeds through the experience by answering automated questions. Depending on their answers, different visual elements are called forth by the re:Memory tool. The re:Memory tool asks users to consider abstract memories. Some questions are straightforward: was it day or night? Where does the memory take place? However, other questions are esoteric and metaphorical. Does the user feel alone? 

re:Memory consists of a JSON array of questions that can imply (two) different answers. Depending on these answers, different images are added to the frame. Sometimes, answers can result in interactive results. An “evil eye” button appears, for example, when the user comments on paranoia. Clicking on this evil eye creates an animated figure that progressively makes its way through the frame. Additionally, the user can use a ‘tool box’ to play around with the image themselves. In this prototype, the tools include a ‘save’ function, which downloads an image of the memory postcard to the user’s desktop, and a color filter function, which modifies the color of the summoned image elements. 

This project was a mish-mash of various elements and techniques sourced (explicitly, as you’ll see in my files) from different places to accomodate the different tools of an editing software. In a future iteration of the project, there would be a longer questionnaire with looser questions, possibly implying the use of tools like RiTA. I had some technological frustrations and also look forward to picking up the project once I have a stable computer. 

In a time of quarantine, re:Memory explores the way that we remember and the pathos-filled nostalgia that is expressed in a time of circumstantial instability. As we are spatially trapped, many of us fall back to technology to transport us to escapist spaces, whether real memories or fictional. re:Memory playfully uses Freudian froufrou to create an interactive experience. Furthermore, I’d eventually like to see re:Memory as a commentary in an age where editing software and photo management tools are increasingly accessible and intuitive. Looking towards the future means considering a more ‘human’ experience. Perhaps we will be able to speak to our software and tell our dulcet-toned OS to make the day a little more gray and it will clone stamp the clouds in the skies for us. 
